and as we mentioned Hamas welcomes the
UN Security Council voting to back the
ceasefire proposal in a statement the
group says it emphasizes Readiness to
cooperate with the mediators to enter
into indirect negotiations on the
implementation of the ceasefire deal and
amas says it will continue its efforts
to achieve National rights for
Palestinians all right let's uh go to
Maran bishara he is alzer's senior
political analyst he joins us via Skype
from Paris Maran um a diplomatic when
we've been saying for the United States
uh the Israeli leadership still a bit Cy
has not publicly endorsed the ceas fire
road map Hamas has come out welcomed the
resolution Where Do We Go From
Here well certainly the United States as
the winner uh of this uh day of this uh
day at the UN Security Council will be
the power that will
dictate uh the days the weeks the months
to come uh the the pace the phases the
stages of whatever negotiations or
Dynamics uh are implemented uh in in
this issue and I think the United States
will be engaging with Israel as it will
be engaging with Hamas through Qatar and
Egypt and it will decide whether
Israel's excuses
justifications and OBC are uh
well-founded or not uh and as per usual
and we've known that the past 30 years
of American diplomacy in Israel
Palestine is that the United States will
continue to play Israel's lawyer
Israel's Defender giving Israel excuses
while at the same time trying to nudge
it to accept uh its
ideas but just to contextualize it's
really important to do so to do in order
to know where we're going we really have
to once again shed a light on where
where we''re coming from this has been
eight years of genocide of war crimes of
a total Destruction of um the Gaza Strip
sanctioned supported armed and financed
by the United States the same United
States that until 24 hours ago was
supporting the killing of 300
Palestinians in Gaza it's the same
United States that
simultaneously is a um
godfathering a ceasefire proposal that
is winning at the UN Security Council so
here you have a lesson in
geopolitics geopolitics where diplomacy
is the reflection of the balance or
imbalance of power and the United States
has come out on top in terms of the
geopolitic of Israel Palestine ever
since it sent its armadas on October 10
or 11 to the area to defend Israel as
Israel carried its crimes against
Gaza it is Israel it is the United
States that has imposed its uh military
strategic will on the region and now it
is uh imposing its diplomatic will it
has for eight months opposed any mention
of a ceasefire any mention of a
ceasefire at the UN Security Council but
now it proposed its
own uh ceasefire ambiguous as it may be
every paragraph of it probably will need
another agreement and another set of
negotiations but it is what it is this
is the world we live in and the United
States will be leading the process
forward and Maran how pivotal are the
next hours and
days well they are pivotally in as far
as giving momentum to what just happened
in the security Council and that's why I
think it's quite
important your question because I think
the Israelis are contemplating exactly
that how far can they procrastinate
because I think Netanyahu was living in
his magical world of carrying war crimes
while waiting for perhaps a trump
Administration to come forward his clock
was different from Biden's Biden's will
probably be hoping that Ida Netanyahu
gets with the program and accept accepts
the deal or maybe negotiate a bit
further but probably the Biden
Administration wouldn't mind if this
government
implodes that Israel calls for another
election and that the likes of Benny
Gans who the poll say will win and he's
presumably today Biden's man in Israel
if he's elected prime minister you know
before the American elections that
certainly will be a big win for um the
Biden Administration or president B
himself so the next few hours are really
key in telling us whether the Israelis
are serious in or not in winding down
this war or to maintain their more of
the same procrastination in order to buy
time until Biden is out of
office Maran Bashar alzer's senior
political analyst thank you
Maran make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz